DEEP LEARNING – WORKSHEET 3
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which of the following is true about model capacity (where model capacity means the ability of neural network to approximate complex functions)?
A) As dropout ratio increases, model capacity increases
B) As number of hidden layers increase, model capacity increases
C) As learning rate increases, model capacity increases
D) None of the above
Answer: B

2. Batch Normalization is helpful because?
A) It is a very efficient backpropagation technique
B) It returns back the normalized mean and standard deviation of weights
C) It normalizes (changes) all the input before sending it to the next layer
D) None of the above
Answer: C


3. What if we use a learning rate that’s too large?
A) Network will not converge B) Network will converge
C) either A or B D) None of the above
Answer: A


4. What are the factors to select the depth of neural network?
i) Type of neural network (e.g. MLP, CNN etc.)
ii) Input data
iii) Computation power, i.e. Hardware capabilities and software capabilities
iv) Learning Rate
v) The output function to map
A) 1, 2, 4, 5 B) 2, 3, 4, 5
C) 1, 3, 4, 5 D) All of these
Answer: D


5. Suppose you have inputs as x, y, and z with values -2, 5, and -4 respectively. You have a neuron ‘q’ and neuron ‘f’ with functions:
q = x + y
f = q * z

Graphical representation of the functions is as follows:
What is the gradient of F with respect to x, y, and z? (use chain rule of derivatives to find the solution)
A) (3, -4, -4) B) (-3, 4, 4)
C) (-4, -4, 3) D) (4, 4, 3)
Answer: C



6. Which of the following statement is the best description of early stopping?
A) Train the network until a local minimum in the error function is reached
B) Simulate the network on a test dataset after every epoch of training. Stop training when the generalization
error starts to increase
C) Add a momentum term to the weight update in the Generalized Delta Rule, so that training converges more
quickly
D) None of the above
Answer: B


WORKSHEET
7. Which gradient descent technique is more advantageous when the data is too big to handle in RAM simultaneously?
A) Mini Batch Gradient Descent B) Stochastic Gradient Descent
C) Full Batch Gradient Descent D) either A or B
Answer: B


8. Consider the scenario. The problem you are trying to solve has a small amount of data. Fortunately, you have a pre-trained neural network that was trained on a similar problem. Which of the following methodologies would you choose to make use of this pre-trained network?
A) Freeze all the layers except the last, re-train the last layer
B) Assess on every layer how the model performs and only select a few of them
C) Fine tune the last couple of layers only
D) Re-train the model for the new dataset
Answer: A

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.
9. Which of the following neural network training challenge can be solved using batch normalization?
A) Overfitting B) Training is too slow
C) Restrict activations to become too high or low
D) None of these
Answer: B&C


10. For a binary classification problem, which of the following activations may be used in output layer?
A) ReLU B) sigmoid
C) softmax D) Leaky ReLU
Answer: B&C

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.
11. What will happen if we do not use activation function in artificial neural networks?
Answer:
When using a neural network without the activation functions, then every neuron will only be performing a linear transformation on the inputs using the weights and biases.
Although linear transformations make the neural network simpler, but this network would be less powerful and will not be able to learn the complex patterns from the data.
A neural network without an activation function is essentially just a linear regression model.

12. How does forward propagation and backpropagation work in deep learning?
Answer:
Forward propagation (or forward pass) refers to the calculation and storage of intermediate variables (including outputs) for a neural network in order 
from the input layer to the output layer. 
Backpropagation refers to the method of calculating the gradient of neural network parameters. In short, the method traverses the network in reverse order,
from the output to the input layer, according to the chain rule from calculus. The algorithm stores any intermediate variables (partial derivatives) required 
while calculating the gradient with respect to some parameters. 

13. Explain briefly the following variant of Gradient Descent: Stochastic, Batch, and Mini-batch?
Answer:
Gradient descent is an optimization algorithm often used for finding the weights or coefficients of machine learning algorithms,
such as artificial neural networks and logistic regression:

Stochastic gradient descent, often abbreviated SGD, is a variation of the gradient descent algorithm that calculates the error and updates the model for each example in the training dataset.
Batch gradient descent is a variation of the gradient descent algorithm that calculates the error for each example in the training dataset, but only updates the model after all training examples have been evaluated.
Mini-batch gradient descent is a variation of the gradient descent algorithm that splits the training dataset into small batches that are used to calculate model error and update model coefficients.


14. What are the main benefits of Mini-batch Gradient Descent?
Answer:
Mini-batch gradient descent seeks to find a balance between the robustness of stochastic gradient descent and the efficiency of batch gradient descent. 
It is the most common implementation of gradient descent used in the field of deep learning.
Benefits of Mini-batch gradient descent:
The model update frequency is higher than batch gradient descent which allows for a more robust convergence, avoiding local minima.
The batched updates provide a computationally more efficient process than stochastic gradient descent.
The batching allows both the efficiency of not having all training data in memory and algorithm implementations.

15. What is transfer learning?
Answer:
Transfer learning (TL) is a research problem in machine learning (ML) that focuses on storing knowledge gained while solving one problem and applying it to a different
but related problem.For example, knowledge gained while learning to recognize cars could apply when trying to recognize trucks.