WORKSHEET-1
SQL


Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. 
Choose all the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create B) Update
C) Delete D) ALTER

Answer: A & D


2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete
C) Select D) Drop

Answer: A,B & C.


Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. 
Choose the correct option to answer your question.

3. Full form of SQL is:
A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
C) Simple Query Language D) None of them

Answer: B


4. Full form of DDL is:
A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.

Answer: B


5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these

Answer: A


6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them

Answer: C


7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them

Answer: B


8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
C) Delete D from A D) None of them

Answer: B


9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int

Answer: B


10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them

Answer: C


Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11. What is data-warehouse?
Answer:
A data warehouse essentially combines information from several sources into one comprehensive database. By combining all of this information in one place, 
a company can analyze its customers in a more holistic way, ensuring that it has considered all the information available. Companies with data warehouses can 
have an advantage in product development, marketing, pricing strategy, production time, historical analysis, forecasting and customer satisfaction.


12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Answer: 
Key differences between OLTP Vs OLAP are mentioned below:
1. Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) is a category of software tools that analyze data stored in a database whereas Online transaction processing (OLTP) supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture.
2. OLAP creates a single platform for all type of business analysis needs which includes planning, budgeting, forecasting, and analysis while OLTP is useful to administer day to day transactions of an organization.
3. OLAP is characterized by a large volume of data while OLTP is characterized by large numbers of short online transactions.
4. In OLAP, data warehouse is created uniquely so that it can integrate different data sources for building a consolidated database whereas OLTP uses traditional DBMS.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Answer:
Below are major characteristics of data warehouse:

Subject-oriented –
A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of organization’s current operations which means the data warehousing process is proposed to handle with a specific theme which is more defined. These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.

Integrated –
Integration means founding a shared entity to scale the all similar data from the different databases.The data also required to be resided into various data warehouse in shared and generally granted manner.

Time-Variant –
In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc.The data resided in data warehouse is predictable with a specific interval 
of time and delivers information from the historical perspective.Another feature of time-variance is that once data is stored in the data warehouse then it cannot be modified, alter, or updated.

Non-Volatile –
As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted. 



14. What is Star-Schema??
Answer:
In the STAR Schema, the center of the star can have one fact table and a number of associated dimension tables. 
It is known as star schema as its structure resembles a star. The star schema is the simplest type of Data Warehouse schema.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer: I have no idea on SETL.




