Statistics– WORKSHEET 4

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0. 
a) True b) False
Answer: a


2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem 
b) Central Mean Theorem 
c) Centroid Limit Theorem 
d) All of the mentioned 
Answer: a


3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution? 
a) Modeling event/time data    b) Modeling bounded count data 
c) Modeling contingency tables d) All of the mentioned 
Answer: c


4. Point out the correct statement.
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the log-normal distribution
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the variables are dependent 
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared distribution 
d) All of the mentioned- 
Answer: b


5. __________ random variables are used to model rates. 
a) Empirical b) Binomial c) Poisson d) All of the mentioned 
Answer: c


6. 10. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT. 
a) True b) False 
Answer: b

7. 1. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data? 
a) Probability b) Hypothesis c) Causal d) None of the mentioned 
Answer: b


8. 4. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data.
a) 0 b) 5 c) 1 d) 10
Answer: 0

WORKSHEET
9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with respect to outliers? 
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes 
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship d) None of the mentioned
Answer: a


Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?
Answer:
Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean, 
showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.


11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
Answer:
When data is missing at random, we can use list-wise or pair-wise deletion of the missing observations. However, there can be multiple reasons why this may not be the most feasible option:
There may not be enough observations with non-missing data to produce a reliable analysis
In predictive analytics, missing data can prevent the predictions for those observations which have missing data
External factors may require specific observations to be part of the analysis
In such cases, we impute values for missing data. A common technique is to use the mean or median of the non-missing observations. 
This can be useful in cases where the number of missing observations is low. However, for large number of missing values, using mean or median can result in loss of variation
in data and it is better to use imputations.


12. What is A/B testing
Answer:
A/B testing (also known as split testing) is a process of showing two variants of the same web page to different segments of website visitors at the same time and
comparing which variant drives more conversions.


13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?
Answer:
Mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice:
Is bad practice in general, if just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data
It leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation and distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero.


14. What is linear regression in statistics?
Answer:
Linear regression is a basic and commonly used type of predictive analysis.  The overall idea of regression is to examine two things: 
(1) does a set of predictor variables do a good job in predicting an outcome (dependent) variable?  
(2) Which variables in particular are significant predictors of the outcome variable, and in what way do they–indicated by the magnitude and 
sign of the beta estimates–impact the outcome variable?  These regression estimates are used to explain the relationship between one dependent variable and
one or more independent variables.  The simplest form of the regression equation with one dependent and one independent variable is defined by the formula y = c + b*x,
where y = estimated dependent variable score, c = constant, b = regression coefficient, and x = score on the independent variable.

15. What are the various branches of statistics
Answer:
Statistics is a study of presentation, analysis, collection, interpretation and organization of data
There are two main branches of statistics
- Inferential Statistic.
- Descriptive Statistic.

Inferential Statistics:
Inferential statistics used to make inference and describe about the population. These stats are more useful when its not easy or possible to examine each member of the population.

Descriptive Statistics:
Descriptive statistics are use to get a brief summary of data. You can have the summary of data in numerical or graphycal form.